DOCS 972: Improve `Navigation` docs with more information on movement sensor measurements usage (#1690)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/navigation/_index.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

> ### Compass Heading

Author: thank you that is super helpful!! Will reorganize this and comment here when done

> ### Compass Heading

Author: What movement sensors read angular veloctiy? I don't currently have that as a page but can implement. Is it a `wheeled-odometry` estimation?

> ### Compass Heading

Reviewer: All the imus, any gyroscopes like the mpu6050, visual and wheeled odometry models.

> ### Compass Heading

Author: Ok awesome added

Compass heading measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [imu-wit][/components/movement-sensor/imu-wit/imu-wit/]
```

Author: TY, done

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go

> sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}

Author: TODO: Needs to be updated to be accurate and not identical to others

Reviewer: Was about to say - this is one float.

Author: Updated!

```

If you want to read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

### Linear Acceleration

Linear acceleration measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

> - [accel-adxl345](/components/movement-sensor/adxl345/)

Author: Thank you, super helpful regardless!

An example of a `Linear Acceleration` reading:

``` go

> sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}

Author: TODO: needs to be updated to be accurate and not identical to others

```

If you want to read linear acceleration, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

> Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

Author: ```suggestion
Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.
```

> Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the acceleration of your robot through space.
```

Author: 😵‍💫 true! Done

### Linear Velocity

Linear velocity measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Reviewer: Also - the visual odometry module returns a relative dimensionless linear velocity for now - but I think there are plans to scale it to return actually linear velocities eventually.

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Author: Awesome, done

An example of a `Linear Velocity` reading:

``` go
sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}
```

If you want to read linear velocity, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use linear velocity readings to determine the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

> Use [linear acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration) readings from another movement sensor to determine the rate of change of this speed.

Reviewer: These are a bit repetivite, but mayeb there is not other way to structure this helper page.

### Orientation

Orientation measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An `Orientation` reading specifies the orientation of an object in 3D space as an "orientation vector", or, its position within the [cartesian coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system) relative to some specific `origin` point that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot.

You compose "orientation vectors" following the same protocol to specify relative orientations of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

An example of an `Orientation` reading or, an orientation vector:

``` shell

> imu get_readings return value: {'angular_velocity': x: -47.9736328125

Reviewer: Why use readings and not the specific APIs for each data type?

Author: @randhid Ok thank you for suggesting, switched to have each one using the specific API (I think)! If you could verify I'm constructing the objects properly in Go that would be much appreciated, am still learning with Go

z: 12.320561743164061
, 'orientation': o_x: -0.5830770214771182
o_y: -0.3688865202247088
o_z: 0.7238397075471042
theta: 60.92769307372125
}
```

When you input an orientation vector, Viam normalizes it to the unit sphere.
Therefore, if you ran the following line of code simulating an orientation `Reading` from a sensor of `(0, -4, -1)`, it will be normalized to `(0, -0.97, -0.24)` as interpreted by `viam-server`:

``` golang
sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("imu"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"b": 0, "b": -4, "c": -1}}
```

If you want to read orientation, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

### Position

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report Position measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Author: Added anyways, I think that's still helpful and can shout out the `wheeled-odometry` a little bit

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Author: Oh, sorry, I thought I added it in the right place but seeing absolute position my brain glitched and I actually added it to Position, which was the wrong place I'm guessing? Adding here in Linear Velocity and removing from Position @randhid lmk if i'm still all switched up!!

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Author: Edited your suggestion slightly, lmk if you want the note aspect

A `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go

> sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}

Author: TODO: needs accurate example

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

### Compass Heading

Compass heading measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

> - [imu-wit][/components/movement-sensor/imu-wit/imu-wit/]

Author: ```suggestion
- [imu-wit][/components/movement-sensor/imu-wit/]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

### CompassHeading

Compass heading measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go
gps.GetCompassHeading{175}
```

Compass heading readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading).
If you want to read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

> Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

Reviewer: The wit and gps give you compass heading, but they're hacky - we're looking for a driver that gives you compass heading, this is more to do with finding good hardware that gives you a stable compass heading rather than the API. 

I'd mention the wit though, anyway.

Author: good w that! Done

### Orientation

Orientation measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An `Orientation` reading specifies the orientation of an object in 3D space as an "orientation vector", or, its position within the [cartesian coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system) relative to some specific `origin` point that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot in Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

``` golang

> imuwit.GetOrientation{o_x: -0.58, o_y: -0.37, o:z 0.72, theta: 60.93}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
orientation, err := imuwit.Orientation(context.Background, nil)
```

orientation is of the form o_x: -0.58, o_y: -0.37, o:z 0.72, theta: 60.93,
same for all other APIs.

```

Orientation readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation).
If you want to read orientation, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

### AngularVelocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report angular velocity measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of a `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go

> imu.GetAngularVelocity{x: -47.9736, y: 142.639, z: -90.1489}

Author: Ok awesome tysm! This makes sense to me to add in there, I wanted to do something similar originally but didn't know how exactly to put it with Go code. Will update and comment here when done

> imu.GetAngularVelocity{x: -47.9736, y: 142.639, z: -90.1489}

Author: Done, I think-- I could add a screenshot maybe to show that fake movement sensor functionality? LMK what you think as-is @randhid

Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

### Position

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report Position measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/) (provides a relative estimate only based on where the base component has started)

A `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
gps.GetPosition{x: 4.5, y: 5.6, z: 6.7}
```

Position readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition).
If you want to get a position, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

> Position readings allow you to get the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).

Author: will implement this--

> Position readings allow you to get the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).

Author: Done! Sorry I updated before applying inline

This is in contrast to [orientation readings](/services/navigation/#orientation), which you use to specify relative position.

> ### LinearAcceleration

Author: Done if you mean position of them right? Or headers entirely? If headers entirely not done @randhid LMK

> ### LinearAcceleration

Reviewer: Position of the sections in the document.

Linear acceleration measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

> - [accel-adxl345](/components/movement-sensor/adxl345/)

Author: Done I think

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of a `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go
imu.GetAngularVelocity{x: -47.9736, y: 142.639, z: -90.1489}
```

The movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) takes angular velocity readings.
If you want to get an angular velocity reading, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

### Position

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take Position measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

> - [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/) (provides a relative estimate only based on where the base component has started)

Author: ```suggestion
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

The following concepts are important to understand when utilizing the navigation service.
Each concept is a type of relative or absolute measurement, taken by a [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/), which can then be utilized by your robot to navigate across space.

> Here's how to make use of the following types of measurements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's how to make use of the following types of measurements:

- [Compass Heading](/services/navigation/#compass-heading)
- [Orientation](/services/navigation/#orientation)
- [Angular Velocity](/services/navigation/#angular-velocity)
- [Position](/services/navigation/#position)
- [Linear Acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration)
- [Linear Velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity)
```

Author: ty, I like this suggestion a lot! done

### Compass Heading

> Compass heading measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

Reviewer 2: can we remove the passive voice?

Author: Yes, sorry. I know it's off

Author: Removing

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go
gps.GetCompassHeading{175}
```

Compass heading readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading).
If you want to read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

### Orientation

> Orientation measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

Author: Removed-- thank you for cleaning up!

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

> An `Orientation` reading specifies the orientation of an object in 3D space as an "orientation vector", or, its position within the [cartesian coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system) relative to some specific `origin` point that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot in Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An `Orientation` reading specifies the orientation of an object in 3D space as an *orientation vector* relative to some specific `origin` orientation that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot in Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
```
Bringing position into this seems misleading. As far as the use of "point," can we get an SME to review language? Orientation isn't defined by or relative to a point since a point is more about position, but not sure my suggestion is ideal either.

Author: I just removed a lot of the wording here, ty! done

Reviewer 3: Hmm it looks the sameish. Making a suggestion.

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

``` golang
imuwit.GetOrientation{o_x: -0.58, o_y: -0.37, o:z 0.72, theta: 60.93}
```

Orientation readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation).
If you want to read orientation, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

### Angular Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report angular velocity measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

> An example of a `AngularVelocity` reading:

Author: Done!

``` go
imu.GetAngularVelocity{x: -47.9736, y: 142.639, z: -90.1489}
```

> Angular velocity readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) to get angular velocity readings.
```
or
```suggestion
To get angular velocity readings, use the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity).
```
or 
```suggestion
To determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating, use the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity).
```
If you like the third suggestion (my preference for succinctness and less redundancy), delete the "Use angular velocity.... sentence at the end of this paragraph.

Whichever way, these could all become more active.

Author: Tried to address this all like `The movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) takes position readings.` lmk what you think! Agree, absoltuely needed to become more active voice-- I'm not the best at remembering the difference w/ active passive voice so if you still think the section could be better lmk with re-review and thanks!

> Angular velocity readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity).
> If you want to get an angular velocity reading, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) method.
```
Or do this

Author: As suggestions above, changed order (I think these were alternatives)?

### Position

> The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report Position measurements:

Author: Done, thank you!

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/) (provides a relative estimate only based on where the base component has started)

A `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
gps.GetPosition{x: 4.5, y: 5.6, z: 6.7}
```

> Position readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can get Position readings through the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition).
```

Avoid passive voice

Author: Done, changes to `The movement sensor api's takes GetPosition().` though which this suggestion might be better than-- lmk if you want to update all to this wording exactly @npentrel

> Position readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition).
> If you want to get a position, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get a position, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) method on the movement sensor.
```
More active, and also I think this order makes more sense since first they configure, then they use the API

Author: will change order, good suggestion!! Done

Position readings allow you to get the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).
This is in contrast to [orientation readings](/services/navigation/#orientation), which you use to specify relative position.

### Linear Acceleration

> Linear acceleration measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

Reviewer 2: passive voice

Author: Done

- [accel-adxl345](/components/movement-sensor/adxl345/)

An example of a `Linear Acceleration` reading:

``` go
accel.GetLinearAcceleration{x: 6.497, y: 1.345, z: 12.32}
```

Linear acceleration readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetLinearAcceleration()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearacceleration).
If you want to get linear acceleration, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

### Linear Velocity

> Linear velocity measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

Reviewer 2: passive voice

Author: Changed/removed

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

An example of a `Linear Velocity` reading:

``` go
accel.GetLinearVelocity{x: 6.497, y: 1.345, z: 12.32}
```

> Linear velocity readings are taken through the movement sensor API's [`GetLinearVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearvelocity).

Reviewer 2: passive voice

Author: Removed

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

The following concepts are important to understand when utilizing the navigation service.
Each concept is a type of relative or absolute measurement, taken by a [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/), which can then be utilized by your robot to navigate across space.

Here's how to make use of the following types of measurements:

- [Compass Heading](/services/navigation/#compass-heading)
- [Orientation](/services/navigation/#orientation)
- [Angular Velocity](/services/navigation/#angular-velocity)
- [Position](/services/navigation/#position)
- [Linear Acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration)
- [Linear Velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity)

### Compass Heading

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take compass heading measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)

> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
```

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go
gps.GetCompassHeading{175}
```

The movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading) takes compass heading readings.
If you want to read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

### Orientation

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take orientation measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

``` golang
orientation, err := imuwit.Orientation(context.Background, nil)
```

The movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation) takes orientation readings.

> Use orientation readings to determine the orientation of an object in 3D space as an "orientation vector", or, its position within the [cartesian coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system) relative to some specific `origin` point that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot in Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

Author: @randhid re. @JessamyT feedback-- if you get another chance to review, how can I phrase this accurately here (line 605)? What i mean to convey is that you configure a (0,0,0),0 point of origin for the world frame and then nest everything off of that

Reviewer: ".... , or, how it is rotated relative to an `origin` coordinate system around the x, y, and z axes. You can choose the `origin` reference frame by configuring it using Viam's frame system. The readings of the Orientation from the movement sensor will report orientations relative to that initial frame."

Optional: "If you do not configure a frame, the default is an at 0,0,0 with a rotation of 0 about the z axis. "
But then i think you'd have to explain that it updated with the frame system in motion and blah blah blah so I'd just link to other pages if you don't want to do that here.

Reviewer 3: Making a suggestion that attempts to incorporate this feedback

Author: @JessamyT applied! Thank you for making suggestion!

Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

### Angular Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take angular velocity measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of an `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go
imu.GetAngularVelocity{x: -47.9736, y: 142.639, z: -90.1489}
```

The movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) takes angular velocity readings.
If you want to get an angular velocity reading, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

### Position

> The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take Position measurements:

Author: ```suggestion
The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take position measurements:
```

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
gps.GetPosition{x: 4.5, y: 5.6, z: 6.7}
```

The movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) takes position readings.
If you want to get a position, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

> Use `Position` readings to determine the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

Author: ```suggestion
Use position readings to determine the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).
```

## Concepts

The following concepts are important to understand when utilizing the navigation service.
Each concept is a type of relative or absolute measurement, taken by a [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/), which can then be utilized by your robot to navigate across space.

Here's how to make use of the following types of measurements:

- [Compass Heading](/services/navigation/#compass-heading)
- [Orientation](/services/navigation/#orientation)
- [Angular Velocity](/services/navigation/#angular-velocity)
- [Position](/services/navigation/#position)
- [Linear Acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration)
- [Linear Velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity)

### Compass Heading

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take compass heading measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go

> gps, err := gps.CompassHeading(context.Background, nil)
> gps.CompassHeading{25}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// heading is a float64 
heading, err := gps.CompassHeading(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: Added, thank you for putting directly so it could be most accurate!

```

> If you want to read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading) takes compass heading readings.
> Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

To read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading) method to get readings from the sensor.
```
I think this order makes way more sense because it's the what and why before the how, instead of explaining "how" before the reader knows what and why.

Author: Do you want me to apply this change everywhere if implemented or just compass heading @JessamyT ? What do you think about usage at top @randhid I'm good w/ either way

Author: Ok, thank you! I'm good with that, thanks for suggesting inline everywhere so it's an easy change to make

### Orientation

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take orientation measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

``` golang

> orientation, err := imuwit.Orientation(context.Background, nil)
> imu.Orientation{"_type":"quat","i":0,"j":0,"k":0,"r":1}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// orientation is a OrientationVector{OX: 0, OY:0, OZ:1, Theta:0}
orientation, err := imuwit.Orientation(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: added

Author: This makes sense for showign users the actual data type, thanks again

```

> If you want to read orientation, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation) takes orientation readings.
> Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
> Use orientation readings to determine the orientation of an object in 3D space as an "orientation vector", or, its position within the [cartesian coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system) relative to some specific `origin` point that you, the user, need to choose and configure for your robot in Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use orientation readings to determine the orientation of an object in 3D space as an [*orientation vector*](/internals/orientation-vector/).
An orientation vector indicates how it is rotated relative to an origin coordinate system around the x, y, and z axes.
You can choose the origin reference frame by configuring it using Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
The `GetOrientation` readings will report orientations relative to that initial frame.

To read orientation, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation) method to get orientation readings.
```

Author: Done

### Angular Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take angular velocity measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of an `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go

> ang_vel, err := imu.AngularVelocity{context.Background, nil}
> imu.AngularVelocity{"_type":"angular_velocity","x":0,"y":0,"z":1}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// angvel is an AngularVelcoity{X:1, Y:2, Z:3}
angvel, err := imu.AngularVelocity{context.Background, nil}
```

Author: added

> angularVelocity, err := imu.AngularVelocity{context.Background, nil}

Reviewer: Parenthesis for go functions instead of curly brackets.

Author: Done/removed 🤦‍♀️

```

> If you want to get an angular velocity reading, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) takes angular velocity readings.
> Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use angular velocity readings to determine the speed and direction at which your robot is rotating.

To get an angular velocity reading, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetAngularVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity) method to get angular velocity readings from the sensor.
```

Author: done

### Position

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take position measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go

> position, err := imu.Position{context.Background, nil}
> gps.Position{"_type":"geopoint","lat":40.7,"lng":-73.98}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// position is a geo.Point{Lat: 40.7, Long: -73.98}, altitude is a float64 100
position, altitude, err:= imu.Position{context.Background, nil}
```

Author: added

```

> If you want to get a position, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) takes position readings.
> The suggested components allow you to get the *absolute* position of components through their Positions readings for use in the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).
> Use position readings to determine the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use position readings to determine the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).
These position readings reflect the *absolute* position of components.

To get a position, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) method to get position readings from the sensor.
```
Same as above; I think what and why should come before how.

Author: Sounds good to me, done

### Linear Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take linear velocity measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/) (provides a relative estimate only based on where the base component has started)

An example of a `Linear Velocity` reading:

``` go

> linear_velocity, err := imu.LinearVelocity{context.Background, nil}
> accel.LinearVelocity{"_type":"vector3","x":0,"y":5.4,"z":0}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// linvel is an r3.Vector{X:0, Y:1, Z:0}
linvel, err := imu.LinearVelocity{context.Background, nil}
```

Author: added

```

> If you want to get linear velocity, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetLinearVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearvelocity) takes linear velocity readings.
> Use linear velocity readings to determine the speed at which your robot is moving through space.
> Use [linear acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration) readings from another movement sensor to determine the rate of change of this speed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use linear velocity readings to determine the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

To get linear velocity, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetLinearVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearvelocity) method to get linear velocity readings from the sensor.
```
Same order change suggestion as the rest. Also I think the linear acceleration stuff being here may be more confusing than helpful, and they can look at the linear acceleration section right below if that's what they're after.

Author: ok, sounds good. I'm fine with that! Done

### Linear Acceleration

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take linear acceleration measurements:

- [accel-adxl345](/components/movement-sensor/adxl345/)
- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of a `Linear Acceleration` reading:

``` go

> linear_acceleration, err := imu.LinearAcceleration{context.Background, nil}
> accel.LinearAcceleration{"_type":"vector3","x":2.2,"y":4.5,"z":2}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// linacc is an r3Vector{X:0, Y:0, Z:1}
linacc, err := imu.LinearAcceleration{context.Background, nil}
```

Author: added

```

> If you want to get linear acceleration, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
> The movement sensor API's [`GetLinearAcceleration()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearacceleration) takes linear acceleration readings.
> Use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

To get linear acceleration, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetLinearAcceleration()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearacceleration) method to get linear acceleration readings from the sensor.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Concepts

The following concepts are important to understand when utilizing the navigation service.
Each concept is a type of relative or absolute measurement, taken by a [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/), which can then be utilized by your robot to navigate across space.

Here's how to make use of the following types of measurements:

- [Compass Heading](/services/navigation/#compass-heading)
- [Orientation](/services/navigation/#orientation)
- [Angular Velocity](/services/navigation/#angular-velocity)
- [Position](/services/navigation/#position)
- [Linear Acceleration](/services/navigation/#linear-acceleration)
- [Linear Velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity)

### Compass Heading

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take compass heading measurements:

> - [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
> - [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
> - [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/) - some gps hardware only report heading while moving.
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/) - ome gps hardware only report heading while moving.
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/) -ome gps hardware only report heading while moving.
```

Author: Done

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go

> // heading is a float64 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// heading is a float64 between 0-360
```

Author: Added/done

heading, err := gps.CompassHeading(context.Background, nil)
```

Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

To read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading) method to get readings from the sensor.

### Orientation

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take orientation measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

``` golang

> // orientation is a OrientationVector{OX: 0, OY:0, OZ:1, Theta:0}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// orientation is a OrientationVector struct with OX, OY, OZ denoting the vector is points 
// and a  rotation about z-axis Theta}
```

> // orientation is a OrientationVector struct with OX, OY, OZ denoting the coordinates of the vector and rotation about z-axis, Theta

Author: ```suggestion
// orientation is a OrientationVector struct with OX, OY, OZ denoting the coordinates of the vector
// and rotation about z-axis, Theta
```

You can choose the origin reference frame by configuring it using Viam's [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
The `GetOrientation` readings will report orientations relative to that initial frame.

To read orientation, first [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Additionally, follow [these instructions](/services/frame-system/#configuration) to configure the geometries of each component of your robot within the [frame system](/services/frame-system/).
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetOrientation()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getorientation) method to get orientation readings.

### Angular Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component take angular velocity measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of an `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go

> // angularVelocity is an AngularVelocity{X:1, Y:2, Z:3}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// angularVelocity is an AngularVelocity r3 Vector with X, Y, and Z magnitudes
```

position, altitude, err:= imu.Position(context.Background, nil)
```

Use position readings to determine the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).
These position readings reflect the *absolute* position of components.

To get a position, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetPosition()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getposition) method to get position readings from the sensor.

### Linear Velocity

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take linear velocity measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)
- [wheeled-odometry](/components/movement-sensor/wheeled-odometry/) (provides a relative estimate only based on where the base component has started)

An example of a `Linear Velocity` reading:

``` go

> // linearVelocity is an r3.Vector{X:0, Y:1, Z:0}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// linearVelocity is an r3.Vector with X, Y, and Z magnitudes 
```

linearVelocity, err := imu.LinearVelocity(context.Background, nil)
```

Use linear velocity readings to determine the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

To get linear velocity, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetLinearVelocity()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearvelocity) method to get linear velocity readings from the sensor.

### Linear Acceleration

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take linear acceleration measurements:

- [accel-adxl345](/components/movement-sensor/adxl345/)
- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)
- [gyro-mpu6050](/components/movement-sensor/mpu6050/)

An example of a `Linear Acceleration` reading:

``` go

> // linearAcceleration is an r3Vector {X:0, Y:0, Z:1}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// linearAcceleration is an r3Vector with X, Y and Z magntiudes.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// linearAcceleration is an r3Vector with X, Y, and Z magnitudes.
```

linearAcceleration, err := imu.LinearAcceleration(context.Background, nil)
```

> You can use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the speed at which your robot is moving through space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use linear acceleration readings to determine the rate of change of the [linear velocity](/services/navigation/#linear-velocity) of your robot, or, the acceleration at which your robot is moving through space.
```

- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/) - some GPS hardware only report heading while moving.
- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)

An example of a `Compass Heading` reading:

``` go
// heading is a float64 between 0-360
heading, err := gps.CompassHeading(context.Background, nil)
```

Use compass heading readings to determine the *bearing* of your robot, or, the [cardinal direction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_direction) that your robot is facing.

To read compass headings, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.
Then use the movement sensor API's [`GetCompassHeading()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getcompassheading) method to get readings from the sensor.

### Orientation

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) take orientation measurements:

- [imu-wit](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-wit/)
- [imu-vectornav](/components/movement-sensor/imu/imu-vectornav/)

An example of an `Orientation` reading:

> ``` golang

Author: ```suggestion
``` go
```

> // orientation is a OrientationVector struct with OX, OY, OZ denoting the coordinates of the vector

Author: ```suggestion
// orientation is a OrientationVector struct with OX, OY, OZ denoting the coordinates of the vector and rotation about z-axis, Theta
```

> // and rotation about z-axis, Theta

Author: ```suggestion
```

An example of an `AngularVelocity` reading:

``` go
// angular_velocity is an AngularVelcoity{X:1, Y:2, Z:3}

> angular_velocity, err := imu.AngularVelocity{context.Background, nil}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
angular_velocity, err := imu.AngularVelocity(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: Done, thank you! My bad here-- I normally know it's supposed to be () if method call but just wasn't thinking properly. Thank you for catching

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
// position is a geo.Point{Lat: 40.7, Long: -73.98}, altitude is a float64 100

> position, altitude, err:= imu.Position{context.Background, nil}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
position, altitude, err:= imu.Position(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: fixed, ty

An example of a `Linear Velocity` reading:

``` go
// linear_velocity is an r3.Vector{X:0, Y:1, Z:0}

> linear_velocity, err := imu.LinearVelocity{context.Background, nil}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linear_velocity, err := imu.LinearVelocity(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: fixed

An example of a `Linear Acceleration` reading:

``` go
// linear_acceleration is an r3Vector {X:0, Y:0, Z:1}

> linear_acceleration, err := imu.LinearAcceleration{context.Background, nil}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linear_acceleration, err := imu.LinearAcceleration(context.Background, nil)
```

Author: fixed! Done
